docs(chart): Add documentation for range series types (#1536)
telerik/blazor-docs: components/chart/types/rangecolumn.md

---
title: Range Column
page_title: Chart - Range Column

> description: Overview of the Range Column Chart for Blazor.

Reviewer: Try to add descriptions containing around 150 symbols and describing the content of the article.

> description: Overview of the Range Column Chart for Blazor.

Author: ```suggestion
description: Overview of the Range Column Chart for Blazor with a description of the common use cases and the different ways to data bind the chart. The article lists configuration options and provides Range Column Chart examples.
```

slug: components/chart/types/rangecolumn
tags: telerik,blazor,chart,rangecolumn
published: True
position: 0
---

# Range Column Chart

> The <a href="https://www.telerik.com/blazor-ui/range-column-chart" target="_blank">Blazor Range Column Chart</a> displays data as vertical bars whose position and height vary according to their values. You can use a Range Column Chart to show a comparison between several sets of data (for example, summaries of quantities or measurements for different time periods). Each series is automatically colored differently for easier perception. The Range Column Chart is similar to the [Column Chart]({%slug components/chart/types/column%}). The latter can be regarded as a Range Column Chart with a "low" ("from") value of zero.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The <a href="https://www.telerik.com/blazor-ui/range-column-chart" target="_blank">Blazor Range Column Chart</a> displays data as vertical bars whose position and height vary according to their values. You can use a Range Column Chart to show a comparison between several sets of data (for example, summaries of quantities or measurements for different time periods). Each series is automatically colored differently for easier perception. The Range Column Chart is similar to the [Column Chart]({%slug components/chart/types/column%}), which can be regarded as a Range Column Chart with a "low" ("from") value of zero.
```

> The <a href="https://www.telerik.com/blazor-ui/range-column-chart" target="_blank">Blazor Range Column Chart</a> displays data as vertical bars whose position and height vary according to their values. You can use a Range Column Chart to show a comparison between several sets of data (for example, summaries of quantities or measurements for different time periods). Each series is automatically colored differently for easier perception. The Range Column Chart is similar to the [Column Chart]({%slug components/chart/types/column%}), which can be regarded as a Range Column Chart with a "low" ("from") value of zero.

Author: ```suggestion
The <a href="https://www.telerik.com/blazor-ui/range-column-chart" target="_blank">Blazor Range Column Chart</a> displays data as vertical bars whose position and height vary according to pairs of `from` and `to` values. You can use a Range Column Chart to show a comparison between several sets of data (for example, summaries of quantities or measurements for different time periods). Each series is automatically colored differently for easier perception. The Range Column Chart is similar to the [Column Chart]({%slug components/chart/types/column%}), which can be regarded as a Range Column Chart with constant `from` values of zero.
```

@[template](/_contentTemplates/chart/link-to-basics.md#understand-basics-and-databinding-first)

## Creating Blazor Range Column Chart

1. Add a `ChartSeries` to the `ChartSeriesItems` collection.

> 2. Set its `Type` property to `ChartSeriesType.RangeColumn`.

Reviewer: ambiguous "its"

> 2. Set its `Type` property to `ChartSeriesType.RangeColumn`.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Set the series `Type` property to `ChartSeriesType.RangeColumn`.
```

> 3. Provide a data collection to its `Data` property. You can use a [collection of arrays](#bind-range-column-series-to-collection-of-arrays) or a [collection of custom objects](#bind-range-column-series-to-custom-objects).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Provide a data collection to its `Data` property. You can use a [collection of arrays](#binding-range-column-series-to-collection-of-arrays) or a [collection of custom objects](#binding-range-column-series-to-custom-objects).
```

4. If the Range Column data is a collection of arrays, provide data for the `Categories` parameter of the `ChartCategoryAxis`.

> ### Bind Range Column Series to Collection of Arrays

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Binding Range Column Series to Collection of Arrays
```

In this case, set the `ChartSeries` `Data` parameter to a `List` of arrays or a jagged array (an array of arrays). The inner arrays should have two members - one for the "low" ("from") value, and one for the "high" ("to") value.

> In addition, set the `Categories` parameter of the `ChartCategoryAxis` to `object[]`. The members of this array will be used as labels for the category axis in their respective order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set the `Categories` parameter of the `ChartCategoryAxis` to `object[]`. The members of this array will be used as labels for the category axis in their respective order.
```

            }
        </Template>
    </ChartTooltip>

    <ChartTitle Text="Exam Score Ranges"></ChartTitle>

    <ChartLegend Position="ChartLegendPosition.Right"></ChartLegend>
</TelerikChart>

@code {
    // The RangeColumn Series Data can be any collection of arrays
    private List<int[]> StudentScores1 { get; set; } = new List<int[]>();
    private int[][] StudentScores2 { get; set; } = new int[5][];

    private object[] Years { get; set; }

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        var thisYear = DateTime.Now.Year;
        Years = new object[] { thisYear - 4, thisYear - 3, thisYear - 2, thisYear - 1, thisYear };

        var rnd = new Random();
        List<int[]> tempData1 = new List<int[]>();
        List<int[]> tempData2 = new List<int[]>();

        for (int i = 1; i <= Years.Count(); i++)
        {
            int randomValue = rnd.Next(30, 50);
            tempData1.Add(new int[] { randomValue, randomValue + 30 });
            tempData2.Add(new int[] { randomValue + 10, randomValue + 40 });
        }

        StudentScores1 = tempData1;
        StudentScores2 = tempData2.ToArray();

        base.OnInitialized();
    }
}
````

> ### Bind Range Column Series to Custom Objects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Binding Range Column Series to Custom Objects
```

        {
            int randomValue = rnd.Next(30, 50);

            StudentScoreList1.Add(new ScoreModel()
            {
                Year = thisYear - 4 + i,
                LowScore = randomValue,
                HighScore = randomValue + 30
            });

            StudentScoreList2.Add(new ScoreModel()
            {
                Year = thisYear - 4 + i,
                LowScore = randomValue + 10,
                HighScore = randomValue + 40
            });
        }

        base.OnInitialized();
    }

    public class ScoreModel
    {
        public int Year { get; set; }
        public int LowScore { get; set; }
        public int HighScore { get; set; }
    }
}
````

## Column Chart Specific Appearance Settings

### Labels

Each data item is decorated with a text label. You can control and customize them through the `<ChartCategoryAxisLabels />` and its children tags.

* `Visible` - hide all labels by setting this parameter to `false`.
* `Step` - renders every n-th labels, where n is the value(double number) passed to the parameter.
* `Skip` - skips the first n labels, where n is the value (double number) passed to the parameter.

> * `Angle` - rotates the labels with the desired angle by n degrees, where n is the value passed to the parameter. It can take positive and negative numbers. To set this parameter use the `< ChartCategoryAxisLabelsRotation />` child tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Angle`—Rotates the labels with the desired angle by n degrees, where n is the value passed to the parameter. It can take positive and negative numbers. To set this parameter, use the `< ChartCategoryAxisLabelsRotation />` child tag.
```

> To rotate the markers use the `ChartCategoryAxisLabelsRotation` child tag and set its `Angle` parameter. It can take positive and negative numbers as value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To rotate the markers, use the `ChartCategoryAxisLabelsRotation` child tag and set its `Angle` parameter. It can take positive and negative numbers as values.
```
